We are listener supported, one radio network.
Well, a very pleasant good morning.
We're going to do this again and get it right this time.
We had a little problem, a little technical problem, but now things are well and we're
back with a good connection with Dr. Ray Peat.
He's a good one and he's with us on the third Monday of every month at about 1130 or so.
We're getting a little bit late because of all this, but he's a PhD in biology.
Goes back to the 60, about 1968.
His main work was in biological chemistry and physics and '71 and '72, dissertation
University of Oregon in 1972.
He really has worked with the ideas of progesterone for a very long time.
He knows quite a bit about hormones and such and his website is Raypeat.com.
If you have a question for Dr. Peat, you can join us right now.
Patrick@oneradionetwork.com.
Dr. Peat, good morning again.
How are you, sir?
Everything fine up there?
Dr. Peat Good morning.
Yep, still good here.
Unusually warm autumn.
Dr. Darrell Bock Yeah, we have, it's going to be like 75 here
in Texas as well.
Do you believe in this whole man-made global warming thing?
Do you think there's anything to it?
Dr. Peat No, very little.
I think it's mostly a solar cycle.
All of the mass media were talking about the oncoming ice age from the 1940s through the
50s into the 70s and it was right after Three Mile Island accident and poisoning of people
with radiation, but the Pentagon published a paper to defend the importance of nuclear
energy because the public was getting afraid of nuclear energy because of that accident.
So they said that petroleum and coal burning are going to cause the planet to have an overheating
problem where right until that moment for the last 30 or 40 years, we had been predicting
a coming ice age.
Right now it became politically valuable to defend nuclear power industry.
It reinforced the public fear of nuclear energy
and so it increased the need to propagandize in favor of nuclear energy because the Pentagon
to keep its bomb supply going needs the partially depleted nuclear material produced by the
scheme generating energy plant.
The waste material from the energy industry is used by the Pentagon for making bombs and
so if the people are too afraid of nuclear power and want to keep burning more coal more
efficiently, then the Pentagon has no more source of atomic bombs.
So it's powerfully in their interest to keep the nuclear power industry going.
So but now they're morphing now to this whole green thing.
Are they going to let go do you think of the nuclear power thing?
That's all part of the pro-nuclear power industry.
In 2004, when they were preparing Barack Obama to be the candidate in four years, they had
him speak at the Democratic convention and he didn't say it outright, but you could see
that he was their big candidate for supporting the whole mess of carbon dioxide overheating
the planet and having to go green with nuclear energy.
It's a big propaganda scheme and Barack Obama was one of the first to put it into political
practice.
Wow, and I've read that he was like one of the big rock stars out in this whole green
thing in Scotland, whatever this thing was in the last two weeks.
Like he was one of the rock stars.
Many people believe that they're going to put him up as like the savior of the world
for this whole one world government thing.
Are they talking about Michelle Obama as a transition into a new Obama era?
Then many people feel, as you probably are well aware, that if they sell us on this idea
Dr. Peat of a green thing, that it won't be enough juice to carry the day because the
experts say there's just not enough and then that will allow them to control whatever they
come up with, whether it be more coal or I guess nuclear.
Yeah, and deforestation is a big part of warming the planet or worse than warming it, destabilizing
it, reducing not only the water vapor and clouds in the air but the carbon dioxide.
It gives you surges of carbon dioxide when you burn down the forest.
But if we have an actual increase in our year-round carbon dioxide level, that will stimulate
restoration of the forest.
So if we change our policies against deforestation and adjust agriculture and land use so that
we stop destroying forests and start rebuilding forests, that will adjust the carbon dioxide
in the air very powerfully more than anything else could.
Interesting.
Dr. Ray Peat is with us.
If you care to join us, we can talk about whatever it is that you would like to speak
about.
Just patrick@oneradionetwork.com.
I've got a little personal question for you and people might learn from this so I'm not
just using up my time for Patrick.
But I like to drink a lot of water, Dr. Peat, during the show because my throat gets dry
and such.
But then lately I've been having to pee like a lot.
It's difficult when I'm on the air because you can't be breaking every time you turn
around to do a commercial.
So what would this be something that I want to look at that needs a little work, needs
a little energy, a little help?
Is it a bladder thing?
Yes, some of it is just over sensitivity of the bladder nerves and the histamine, actual
production of histamine.
That goes with your general energy level.
Women have the problem more often than men because women are about ten times more likely
than men to have a thyroid autoimmune series of problems.
That basically goes with the high histamine production and sensitivity.
Low thyroid shifts you towards the estrogen and histamine patterns, meaning that your
reflexes are less stabilized.
You need more sugar more often because your thyroid isn't efficiently conserving your
glucose.
Interesting.
So the histamine could just make the bladder more sensitive and feels like it's got
to pee.
Yes.
And salt and sugar are the immediate antidotes.
They work for half an hour or so, but the basic problem is to increase your oxygen metabolism
rate with thyroid.
I kind of worked up and did the piggy thyroid thing over two or three months that you coached
me on, just some pig thyroid.
I did a thyroid test and it's like it's 0.3.
On your TSH?
Yes, it's pretty good, huh?
I actually preferred just a small amount less than that, but that's in the range where
you are likely to get thyroid cancer or other diseases.
So you could even lower than that?
Yes, just according to your personal health and needs.
I don't really have any issues, but I guess I could increase a little bit more pig stuff
if I wanted?
Yes, to see how it does with your bladder rhythms.
And one of the big effects is that you can go all night without having to drain your
bladder.
So maybe orange juice, or orange juice during the show rather than water, maybe would add
some sugar there and help that?
As my thyroid is getting happier?
Yes, and salty snacks help too.
Salty snacks, yes.
You're fun to hang around, boy, more sugar.
I love to do in the middle of the night when I wake up is have some milk, warm it up with
some beet sugar, organic beet sugar in there.
And that's sure nice to go back to sleep after that.
Where do you get your organic beet sugar?
I think I just got it online somewhere.
I bought two of them.
I think I got it through Amazon, somewhere.
There's a small advantage, but a definite chemical advantage to using beet sugar grown
in the Midwest, for example, over the tropical cane sugar.
Oh, you mentioned that, yeah.
So I'll have to look and see whether it's made, so you could actually maybe find a company.
What's the advantage of getting the beet sugar in the Midwest over...
You get less deuterium.
Deuterium, yeah.
The heavy water that slows your metabolism and accelerates aging processes.
That's pretty fun.
The tropical warm water sugar cane has more of the deuterium, but after it has rained
out crossing the continent, the central continent crops like sugar cane have fairly depleted
deuterium content and so tend to activate your metabolism.
So I could call the company, find out where they're getting their beet sugar and find
one that's getting it from the upper Midwest, you say that's the best place?
Yeah, as far as I know.
So I don't understand this whole deuterium thing.
I mean, why would God have some kind of an element that is not good for us in the whole
milieu of nature?
It probably has some general biological function of sorting things out into slower metabolizers
and faster metabolizers, but organisms with a big high-energy brain definitely do better
on low deuterium foods.
Active.
When you're active, you're an active thinker doing creative things with your mind.
Yeah, with a big hot brain.
I got one of those, baby.
Wow, interesting.
It does better on the lower deuterium.
So maybe I can move up to the Midwest.
North Dakota is a pretty cool place, pretty great.
Yeah, there are places trying to industrialize the reduction of deuterium in water and they
sell deuterium-depleted water.
It's pretty expensive for a depletion of a small amount.
I wonder about rainwater.
That's my source.
It's well-filtered, but it's rainwater.
I wonder how that does with deuterium.
Yeah, the farther you are from the tropics, the less deuterium there is.
I see.
The tropics.
Pretty cool.
Dr. Ray Peat is with us, Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com.
So you're a very intuitive fellow, obviously, and that's why we like talking to you.
What do you think these people who are running this whole COVID thing, do you have any insights
on where you think this is going to go from here after, what has it been, what, a year
and a half?
Yeah.
Have you been following videos of people like David Martin?
I have, and we've been streaming that wonderful video that he did.
He's really on it, isn't he?
Yeah, and the people he identifies, they are just personally limited bad characters, almost
uniformly.
They're people that you wouldn't personally want to associate with.
Yes.
This Moskowitz guy, did you see that?
He's really in on all this.
Man.
Yeah.
Martin is really something, isn't he?
He's a really interesting fellow.
Yeah.
He has an odd PhD in physiology.
I think it's the only one in the world.
You got it from the University of Virginia, where he has been working ever since then,
but it gave him a pretty broad background in physiology.
Yeah.
Well, he's a very, very intelligent fellow and doing great work.
I'm surprised they even let him anywhere anymore in his videos.
He's pretty out there.
This is a great question.
We'll start out with Dr. Peat, a lady that believes that she was exposed to some folks
who had had the injection and got some face heat going on, some heat in her face that
she's never experienced before.
Wondering what this could possibly be.
Face heat.
Heat in the face.
Yes, sir.
That is usually a combination of nerves and nitric oxide activation, all of the pro-inflammatory
things related to the virus and the vaccines.
All of them make you more susceptible to ups and downs of your nitric oxide production.
Let's see.
Nitric oxide.
Those all tie in.
So is it possible then that folks can be getting things on some levels from the injected people,
also known as shedding?
Oh, yeah.
The shedding of large molecules and nucleic acids and proteins and so on, that has been
studied very thoroughly and in understandable detail.
Like you put a cold piece of metal in front of a person's nose and collect the fluid that
condenses out of your breath.
Going back 20 years, this has been used to analyze people's metabolism.
Not just small molecules that you would understand, like garlic fumes coming out of your breath
and so on, but you find proteins and DNA and RNA molecules condensing out of your breath.
These reflect what's normally circulating, your own DNA and RNA.
So the FBI has known about those and that your breath condensates are identifying you
individually by your DNA.
It doesn't have to be a saliva sample or a hair sample, but just the condensate of your
breath is an identifying molecular indicator that the FBI has recognized as something that
you can transmit.
One person can rub it off on another and they can leave it on things in the environment
and confuse the FBI investigations.
But it's not necessarily negative things that we share.
It's just everything.
Yeah, everything.
They call exosomes information, whatever it is.
Yeah.
And the Pfizer people were aware of those pre-existing years of research showing that
RNA and DNA that's already circulating is going to come out on your breath and skin.
And so they warned their testing people doing the preliminary tests on the vaccines not
to risk contaminating pregnant and breastfeeding women by the breath or skin contact with people
who have been vaccinated because they knew if they were adding novel RNA, since you're
already spreading existing RNA and DNA, if they add something new, for sure it's going
to get into your shed material and be a potential contaminant and harm pregnant and breastfeeding
women.
Wow.
So with that said, we're always sharing things good, the bad, the ugly with others?
Yeah.
Pretty much?
And our food, there are a couple of laboratories that have for years been watching the fate
of the DNA in the food we eat.
And a little bit of it tends to stay with us and get incorporated into our cells.
So you can find cow DNA, spinach DNA, whatever you look for, traces of it.
No matter what we eat, right?
It's all in there.
Yeah.
Getting incorporated right into our cells.
Often they find that algae DNA, for example, if a person is eating a lot of algae, that
can affect their nervous and mental functions because the foreign DNA is getting too high
a concentration.
Too high a concentration in what way?
It starts governing our behavior rather than just being treated as a contaminant.
It starts actually influencing the metabolism of the cell.
For example, some people with a high contamination of certain algae or organisms, it goes with
the damaged memory and reasoning processes.
And it can be damaged because it's coming out of the ocean.
So you're assimilating too much of it.
Everyone is assimilating some traces.
But when you incorporate it as a major part of your diet, then it can start taking some
control and influencing your functioning.
Wow.
Dr. Ray Peat, stay right there, sir.
We're going to take a little break and then we'll start taking some emails.
If you have an email, a question for him, you are just welcome to do it and you can
do it right now.
Patrick@OneRadioNetwork.com.
For my first meal of the day, I like to make a blended drink and I'm always basing my
blended drinks around colostrum.
Colostrum adds so much creamy flavor and texture that if you don't have it, smoothies start
to seem a little bit watery to me.
Now I'm going to be combining it with a bunch of other ingredients, but it really
is the all-star.
Colostrum has so many health benefits.
Probably it's best known for its effects on the immune system.
There's actually an article in PubMed showing colostrum to be three times more effective
against flu and flu symptoms than flu vaccines are, even in high-risk patients.
It's incredible for fighting flu and other viral-type infections.
It's also really good for building lean muscle mass.
In fact, it contains all 89 of the known mammalian growth factors.
It's also very good for the gut lining.
So people who suffer from things like Crohn's, IBS, leaky gut syndrome, a lot of those folks
are using colostrum in the regenerative process to heal and restore their gut lining.
And one of the things I love about it is that it's a complete food.
So colostrum contains everything a mammal needs to thrive.
It contains all of the essential amino acids.
It contains all of the essential lipids or fats.
It contains all of the essential glyconutrients.
Those are essential sugars that we need for our immune function.
So it's got all of that and all those growth factors, which means this is really a complete
food for human beings or for any other mammals.
Tastes great.
It's got the fuel I need to get through the day.
And it's got all those added health benefits thanks to the colostrum too.
And remember, ladies and gentlemen of the jury, that colostrum is just one of the great
products that Daniel has.
The pine pollen, the elk velvet antler, the shaga and the reishi, digestive bitters.
We also have the vitamin DK2 thing.
And I think that's about it.
But really nice products.
Everything is in myron glass.
So that's something that helps to keep things fresher and actually powers them up a little
bit as Dr. Cowan does in his powders as well, the myron glass.
So it's a great company and we think that you'll enjoy this colostrum.
If you haven't tried it, it's really quite special.
Really quite special.
Colostrum from Daniel Vitalis and Sir Thrivell.
And this from Shen Blossom.
Previously with our conversation with Brandon Amelani.
We love the rice sprouts.
I tell you what, they're happening.
My little body likes that.
Oh man, I don't know why.
Oh yeah.
I mean people get amazing results.
Something as simple as sprouted and fermented rice is just like so nutrient dense, so easily
absorbable.
And it builds the chi and the organ systems in the body.
It's very neutral for most people.
So it's just, you can feed it to your kids.
It's really safe.
And I get more positive feedback on that one than any of the other powders.
But yeah, it's basically an heirloom rice source that we source from a family, a small
family in Japan.
So it's like an heirloom grade rice.
And then we take that and do a fermentation process on it.
So it combines the endosperm, sprout and the rice brand, but it makes the brand soluble.
And the fermentation process actually unlocks a lot of, fermentation has this really amazing
ability to create nutrients out of nothing through that process.
So yeah, that's a really special product in a lot of ways.
Rice sprouts, really nice product.
Front page, One Radio Network, Shen Blossom.
You see the ad.
This is where you get the goji berries, schizandra, ginseng, a lot of cool things.
And try these rice sprouts for you and the kids.
Front page, One Radio Network dot com.
Indeed, and there's just so much to choose from there.
I just went on his website this morning and looked around and black bamboo, check this
out, black bamboo vinegar, brown rice miso, coral seaweed, green teas.
He's got green teas.
Extra virgin olive oil, that's very, very nice as well.
We love extra virgin olive oil.
What other kind of things?
Goji berries, schizandra, minoni honey from Hawaii.
Grotine powders, these are very, very nice powders.
Two of them, different ones, and bamboo.
Bamboo is the first ingredient on both of them.
And the ho-shi-wu formula.
Good things for the kidneys, on and on and on.
I think you'll enjoy what you find there on Shen Blossom.
There's a mountain detox formula that you can take before you eat, which is pretty cool.
He also has the digestive, it's called Prime, you put a little bit in your hand and then
put your tongue there and get that before you eat.
The Poten-C, which is a collagen vitamin C formula.
Pepper Plus too, which is a very extraordinary strain of pepper, different form of pepper
that he claims is good for you.
So a lot of good things on any Shen Blossom link on OneRadioNetwork.com.
We talk about your health, wealth, and well-being on OneRadioNetwork.com.
It's the third Monday of the month and we get to talk to Dr. Ray Peat, who's a PhD and
been around for a long time doing such good things like this.
Dr. Peat, I want to ask you about, what's the difference between DNA, DNA is just, it's
there, right?
I mean, this is just the signature of what's going on in our body like you were talking
about, right?
Yeah, it's a framework if you think in terms of inertia, it's the slowest acting, it's
like a stone foundation and a structural system, very, very slow to change.
It offers the long-range stability of the organism species.
But does it change?
I mean, you say slow to change, but as we grow and evolve and get healthier, does it
change?
Yeah, every time we adapt to something, we're slightly modifying the DNA background.
And so part of it, it becomes more and more heritable if you experience it.
For example, three or four or five generations in a row, then the heritability of it has
increased, and that adds to your long-range inertia or foundation.
But the individual can modify that framework and get one or two or three generations of
inheritance of the effect of your experience.
But the more the environment causes you to have that adaptation, the longer effect it's
going to have on the species.
And then we modify it by our state of consciousness?
Yeah, the state of consciousness is the essence of how we meet the environment and predict
it and profit from it.
If your consciousness is constantly being surprised and thrown off balance, then your
adaptations are always going to be random and ineffective.
But the better your predictive understanding is of where your life process is taking you,
the more successful the momentary adaptation will be and the more likely to be constructive
in the long range.
So if we react to the outside influences, could we argue that we're becoming a little
bit weaker by reacting to them unconsciously rather than consciously?
The consciousness means that we find out an aspect of the environment that is exactly
what we need.
So it all comes from the environment, but with our consciousness of it, we can pick
out which are just right for going ahead.
If you don't have that conscious selection of where you're going and what specific
change you're making, then you don't have that long range productive progress in your
metabolism.
Fascinating.
So what's the difference then between the DNA and the genes?
Of the gene, the idea existed long before there was any knowledge about DNA and its
effects.
But partly the language of genes is very unscientific.
It was originally used to deny that there can be any change.
The gene was supposed to be the eternal.
Like you had this genetic thing and this is the way you are, right?
That kind of idea.
Yeah.
But thinking of it in terms of the inertia of our response to the environment, the gene
idea is a degree of inertia.
It isn't an absolute immortal always and the only feature of our species.
The DNA is something to be put to use, modified as far as we can modify it, expressing or
repressing the expression of the DNA according to what we need to be expressed.
So that's the whole idea of epigenetics that over the last, I don't know how long,
you tell me please, that we've known that the idea of these genes, they don't really
matter much.
We just create them as we go.
They're more of a visual of what's going on in our body?
Yeah, Charles Darwin sketched out the idea of the inheritance of acquired traits.
He was absolutely in line with his grandfather who was a pioneer in the inheritance of acquired
traits and confirming Lamarck's idea that life is acquiring traits by interacting with
the environment.
But the neo-Darwinists totally falsified the real Darwin.
The real Darwin said that in behavior, in our adapting to the environment, the cells
which are adapting and interacting with the environment are sending out little capsules
of information into the bloodstream, getting into the gonads ready to be inherited.
These capsules of information he called jammules, a little kind of message secreted by the tissue
as it lives in the environment, describing the process, the progress it has made, and
putting that into the blood ready to be inherited through the gonadal cells.
That's exactly...
It took 160 or 170 years before exactly those mechanisms were verified.
The exosome or endosomes, various names for them, our cells in adapting do put nucleic
acids and proteins and message material into these little experience capsules to travel
through the body to help repair other tissues and they gain access to the gametes and can
be passed on to the offspring.
It's exactly the sort of jammules that Darwin sketched out.
We have them now identified as endosomes and exosomes, carrying information around, new
information never exactly formed in this manner, but it's now recognized as a manner of communication
between our experiencing and adapting cells and our gonads and the next generations.
Wow, that's pretty interesting, isn't it, the way that works?
Yeah, there are several labs that are making this connection now.
Dr. Ray Peat, Patrick Timponi, OneRadioNetwork.com, thanks for joining us.
Let's start out with a couple of emails here.
Could the extremely low DHEA levels after adrenalectomy be the reason why a 30-year-old
guy would not respond to thyroid supplementation?
Oh, sure, you need your adrenals.
In animal experiments, it happens that progesterone, the substance itself, contains the main functions
of your adrenal steroids.
The androgens, glucocorticoids, and mineralocorticoids are reflected in the molecule of progesterone.
If your adrenals have been removed, then you just aren't able to respond to the increased
metabolic rate of active thyroid metabolism unless you have some material to make up for
the missing adrenals, either the aldosterone cortisol, for example, to provide the adaptive
flexibility or progesterone.
So what would be something that this emailer could kind of look at to balance things out
for himself?
Make sure that their blood tests are being recognized and used to compensate properly
because it can be deadly to have a deficiency of the adrenal steroids unless you're replacing
them.
So he's got to be working with somebody that knows what they're doing with this thing.
It's kind of a tricky biz, right?
Yeah, the adrenal deficiency is a real serious thing that for the rest of your life you have
to depend on supplements.
I wonder why they would take out the adrenals.
They used to do it for cancer treatments, but that has been abandoned for 60 years.
This is from Alistair for Dr. Peat.
What does Dr. Peat think about homeopathy?
Do Gilbert Ling's ideas support the notion that information can be contained within water,
for example, even if it is diluted to submolecular concentrations?
In the vaguest way, yes, but Gilbert Ling's understanding of water is in the living state
and the living state has all of its very powerful stabilizing factors that are not in the same
world as the very delicate type of information transfer that homeopaths are talking about.
So the takeaway from that is that in general...
There's some good science behind homeopathy, but Gilbert Ling's work is not at all directed
towards those ultra-sensitive therapeutic ideas.
Is the basic idea long ago when they created these vaccines, was that supposed to be kind
of a homeopathic idea?
A little bit of this will help your body to figure this out, that kind of thing?
Yes, for the last few years I've been emphasizing that the whole antibody-centered idea of health
and immunity really is just a marketing ploy of the drug industry.
It requires stepping back and reconsidering our 100-year history of giving out Nobel Prizes
for antibody-connected research.
The idea was set up in the time of Pasteur with great support from the chemical industry
that wanted to create markets for its patent remedies, basically.
It used Paul Ehrlich and his 1908 reception of the Nobel Prize for Immunity.
The antibody doctrine was an idea of the chemical industry to create a perpetual market for
their products as a continuation of a natural immune process.
The antibody Ehrlich described as a magic bullet of the body, which is kind of true.
The antibody does have specificity for individual chemicals and organisms, but our immune system
is much more than that.
His reason for talking about the magic bullet property of our natural immune system is that
he wanted to connect the drug industry's products based on mercury and arsenic, for example,
as poisons to kill microorganisms that were very resistant to the immune system.
He used these extremely toxic chemicals and built them into a system promoted by the drug
industry that he recognized that dyes, coal tar-derived chemicals that produced the dye
substance, had staining specificities.
The fact that different chemical dyes stain different tissues and different disease organisms,
he identified that as a kind of specificity analogous to the specificity of the antibody.
It's an entirely verbal sales pitch, no real science behind it.
That 1908 Ehrlich Nobel Prize was used by the industry in medicine to say that these
chemicals are analogous to what the body is really doing.
He shared that 1908 prize with Metchnikoff, who was talking about the immune system as
everything including the antibodies, but with only a very small role for the antibodies.
It turns out 100 years later and more of it, the Metchnikoff approach to a complicated
multi-level adaptable immune system is what we have.
The antibody doctrine is just an offspring of the chemical industry's marketing business.
Now, of course, this whole PCR thing is all about the antibodies, right?
Yeah, unless you go back and look at where the idea of our immune system is built on
the antibodies, that's all powered by the German chemical industry.
This idea that a lot of the immune system is in our gut, is that true?
Yeah, starting right at our skin and our gut membranes.
Speaking of that, I got this interesting email from Hilda.
"I just started taking probiotics.
I was having trouble with constipation and I've only been on for about two or three
weeks but I've really seen some great results.
Can Dr. Peat explain to me what is going on, why I'm eliminating better digestion, and
can I take as much probiotics as I want?"
Okay, so why is she feeling better doing probiotics?
I'm sorry, not probiotics, it's fermented foods.
Let's paraphrase it.
It was what?
Fermented foods.
I substituted probiotics for fermented foods, sorry, because it was a long thing and I paraphrased
what she was saying.
It was a very long email.
Sorry, fermented foods.
In fermented foods, there are many, many antibiotic substances.
One type of bacteria can very effectively kill and eliminate the bad bacteria.
So if you're lucky, your fermented food can act like antibiotics and set things straight.
But fermented foods are extremely variable and they can produce carcinogenic materials
too, so it isn't always predictable.
Right, but so if somebody makes their own way with sauerkraut with salt or whatever,
I mean how would we know if the fermented foods that we get are what we want?
I mean, would it just have to be trial and success and see how our digestion elimination
works?
Would that be a good marker if we eliminate better?
Yeah, trial and error is pretty much the same.
Pretty much we're going to do.
Sorry, Hilda, I substituted the words.
I just in my mind, I substituted probiotics for fermented foods.
Interesting.
You know, so much stuff now, Dr. Peter, seems to be coming out.
There's a mainstream, pretty mainstream, very popular website called Revolver that
actually gets mentioned on Tucker Carlson and Steve Bannon.
Of course, Steve Bannon got arrested this morning, so let's not go there.
But anyway, it's all about the vaccine did nothing to stop polio disease caused mostly
by pesticides.
We've had other people say that about the whole polio story.
Do you have any theories on that or insights?
Oh, yeah.
If you just read the history of how polio occurred, as much detail as you can get, the
whole myth of polio and vaccination, it falls apart.
The paralytic polio, as soon as the vaccine came on the market, it appeared to have been
curing polio.
All they did was rename the paralysis that occurs and no longer call it polio.
They just call it something else.
So with the disappearance of polio as a result of the vaccine, other types of paralysis sprang
into the foreground and they no longer called it polio.
So pesticides played a role in this?
We think that's what was going on.
Yeah.
, and chemical poisoning all contributed to paralytic results.
Among other things, injections were demonstrated to increase the paralytic effects of a given
organism.
So even the vaccination was increasing.
In Africa, they're still seeing that if a kid is vaccinated in the right hip or the
left arm for polio, the paralysis is most likely to affect their right leg or their
left arm, depending on where they were vaccinated.
When I was in grade school, Dr. Peat, they gave a sugar cubes polio thing.
I wonder what was in that thing.
I think that was a semi-living virus.
Have you seen the words smallpox been starting to come up?
Do you think they've got smallpox in the future of humanity or they want to run with this
one?
Oh yeah, they've saved it in freezers so that they can use it for germ warfare.
What is smallpox?
What is it exactly?
It's a virus.
It's a virus?
Yeah.
But it has to be onto the skin, right?
You got to get it in there somewhere.
Is that correct?
They do it with the blankets in the Indians and all of that?
Yeah.
It's the infectivity of the different poxy diseases.
The herpes forms a pox, a chicken pox, all of these have some similarity.
Some of the viruses just around the family, if someone has a cold sore on their lip and
people drink out of the same cup, that will spread the cold sore.
And it can be on pens that you write with or doorknobs or whatever.
It can persist for several hours and be transmitted by touch.
It wasn't a smallpox, it wasn't a thing through the air allegedly.
It was more by touch.
More by touch, is that correct?
And then they do a smallpox vaccine by scraping the skin or something like that?
Yeah, for hundreds of years they were demonstrating that if you could induce the production of
one of these little sores, that that could make you resistant to the disease.
And that if you injected it by scraping locally, that increased the chance that you would just
get a local swelling and local disease and that would give you immunity against the deadly
whole body disease.
So it was the manner and location of the vaccination that was so successful with smallpox.
If you injected smallpox into a muscle the way they do, it would have probably been killing
about 100% of the vaccinated people.
Dr. Ray Peters is with us.
Martin Armstrong, he's really an interesting fellow in the world of economics.
He'll be here on Wednesday.
And then Dr. Andrew Kaufman is going to join us at noon on Wednesday.
It's been a long time since we've talked to him.
We recently talked with Dr. Thomas Cowan.
I'll send you the interview.
And he was speaking in the idea that more and more that he looks at it, the cells are
more in the terms of the Gerald Pollack idea of the gel thing.
And a lot of the different cells that they taught him in, different aspects of the cell
they taught him in medical school was just not right.
And the cells are actually this gel-like material.
Any ideas on that?
Oh sure.
And that was Leng as well, wasn't it?
Or Hillman?
Yeah.
When I started in graduate school in 1968, the professors were selling the membrane doctrine
and sodium pumps and so on.
And I read all of the assigned papers but looked at the same journals where the assigned
papers were published and found that back in the '30s and '40s, there were very productive
ideas about how cell water and minerals are handled.
And it was only a very superficial doctrine error, a part of the early research that came
to be formed into the membrane theory and sodium pump theory.
And reading what was actually going on, all of the best research of the 1940s was being
accumulated in the work of people related to Gilbert Lane.
And his early work in the '50s was predicting in a very coherent way how the outcome of
the research was going.
But he didn't publish his definitive works until the '60s and '70s.
And by that time, he had completely shown the impossibility of the accepted mainstream
idea that cells have membranes and sodium pumps.
It simply became clear that they were impossible fantasies and people didn't want to acknowledge
the existence of Gilbert Lane.
So they lied about what he was writing about and basically created a slander culture against
Lane and his colleagues.
So what is the takeaway for us who have bodies here listening on this November 15 day, knowing
like what Colin is now talking about and what you've known for a long time, as opposed to
the way we've been sold?
How does it help us to know this?
The inclination of our very substance is in the right direction.
So one of the implications of the Gilbert Lane orientation is that the processes don't
take energy to survive.
The purpose of the energy should be to change and adapt, but merely surviving does not take
any energy.
Surviving doesn't take any energy.
That's interesting.
Wow.
Yeah.
A very big change.
The sodium pump says it's constant uphill work, just staying alive.
I see.
You have to spend about 15 times as much energy as ourselves can ever make just to stay alive.
Wow.
So that's the whole thing with the ATP and all that, which just isn't true, right?
Just isn't true.
Wow.
It's almost like they planned this so you felt inferior or you couldn't live a long
time or you couldn't be healthy without their help or something.
Yeah.
It's all made up.
Made up to suit their business needs.
Wow.
And the blood-brain barrier thing, that's not true, the way we've been taught?
The blood which?
Blood-brain barrier.
Remember?
Oh, yeah.
There's no...
No blood-brain barrier.
Yeah, many years ago someone injected an emulsion of soybean oil into the carotid artery and
showed that it was massively taken up on the first pass through the brain.
The oil just fell into the brain like it was running through a sponge.
Wow.
No barrier at all to certain substances.
It's a resistance.
The brain is a fatty organ and it's a resistance to watery substances, but there's no barrier
to fats.
Because there's blood in the brain, I mean, there's no barrier, right?
I mean, where would the barrier be?
Yeah.
But even in natural medicine, Doc, they've talked about this blood-brain barrier for
years.
We all bought into it.
I did.
It seemed like a reasonable thing.
You didn't because you're a smart guy.
Every difference of tissue has some difference of affinity.
And so each tissue picks up things according to its affinity.
And where you have a very different type of tissues in contact, there'll be an apparent
partial barrier.
But it's only a matter of a barrier with reference to the consistency of the substance.
Yes, sir.
This is great.
From Peter, Dr. Peat has mentioned his affinity towards coconut oil.
I'm wondering if he could explain why coconut oil is good for us to take.
Coconut oil.
Oh, it's just that it's saturated.
When we eat starch and sugar in excess, we turn the carbohydrate into saturated fats.
And a very small part of the saturated fats that we make can be turned into oleic acid
and omega-9 fatty acid.
And that can be turned into a series of polyunsaturated fats derived from starch and sugar.
And if we eat only saturated fats, it's the same thing.
We can create our minus-9 series of polyunsaturated fats from saturated fats or from carbohydrates.
It's the minus-6 and minus-3 series that are unstable and tend to promote interference
with oxygen metabolism and to create inflammation.
So if you are going to eat some fats, it's better if they're saturated.
Butter is one, is that?
Butter is probably the best.
The best.
So if you were going to have potatoes, you could even take a teaspoon of coconut oil.
Would it help balance it out?
Or butter?
Yes, if you don't have good butter and cream, coconut oil is okay.
There you go.
Richard writes in, "Just turned 70 and found my blood sugar is 200."
He doesn't say here if this is fasting.
What are some ideas that I can do to get back into balance without drugs?
It really depends on what time of day you did the test and what you were eating in the
last 12 hours.
But you should investigate the other hormones, vitamin D, thyroid hormone, and your balance
of calcium and phosphate in your diet.
Those are all things that can create the illusion of diabetes without necessarily the commitment
to actual sickness.
Okay, here's one, Michael Brooklyn, "Love your show.
I've been following Dr. Rapey for a long time.
Thanks for having him on.
My 9-year-old son out of nowhere seemed to now have trouble swallowing.
Couldn't have anything but liquid for two weeks.
Now he's starting to get better, but still has trouble swallowing after two months.
What could this be?"
It could be an allergy, but I think around that age, it's important to check their thyroid
and other hormones because with the changing hormone environment of puberty, sometimes
the thyroid gets blocked and that can increase sensitivity to allergens, but it can also
enlarge the thyroid gland and cause swallowing difficulties.
Oh, so that's the idea, connection between a low thyroid and swallowing where the thyroid
gland is enlarging.
Is it trying to reach out to get some nutrients or something while it enlarges?
Yeah, when it isn't able to make the thyroid hormone that it needs, the stimulation causes
it to grow and the growth can cause sore throat, hoarseness, a sense of a lump in the throat
as well as that tends to go with allergic sensitivities, so it's really important to
have a blood test for thyroid and other hormones.
Aereo, Patrick mentioned his thyroid, his TSH is now 0.3 and Dr. Peat suggested it needed
to be lower.
Could you repeat on what he said his recommended number is?
Within the range of 0.4 downward, that group in populations is essentially free of thyroid
cancer because the higher the TSH is, the more stress and inflammation happens in the
thyroid gland and so either a deficiency or an excess of iodide in the environment will
cause inflammation of the thyroid and a tendency to develop cancer.
So when your iodide intake is just right, fairly low, your TSH stays in that 0.4 and
below range.
But you had suggested I could even get lower, take it a little more piggy if I wanted to
experiment.
Yeah, lots of people are very happy and healthy when they have a 0.1 or 0.1.
Wow, that's amazing.
And you've seen on these blood tests where they have their, what do they call it, safe
range doctor, whatever they call it, the recommended range is like 4 to 10 or something like that.
Oh yeah, that's kind of a sub-cult.
If you look at the history of TSH and the theory of how to measure thyroid deficiency,
it goes back to what I call a fraud.
It's a total destruction of our thyroid understanding.
Starting in the 1940s, I've got an article called "50 Years of Fraud" which superficially
traces out the history of how TSH has come to be the defining trait of thyroid function.
So that's why to this day, you're concerned, what you look at is the TSH and you don't
care about the other ones.
That's the standard medical opinion.
I look at TSH as one of the pro-inflammatory pituitary hormones that is best when it's
minimal.
Low as you can go, right?
Yeah, it's promoting inflammation.
TSH goes up in hypothyroidism and things like inflammation of the blood vessels increases
because of high TSH, not just because of low thyroid hormone.
TSH is an active factor in the sickness of thyroid deficiency.
Catherine wants to know, she's in California, "Could Dr. Peat discuss the relationship between
freckles and lipofuscin if there is one?
Why do young children have freckles?
I thought they were hereditary.
Why do people with fair skin tones and red hair usually have freckles?"
You usually have what?
Freckles.
Yeah, why do the red hair and the light skin people have freckles?
Yeah, I think partly it's an irritated inflammatory reaction.
I've known people who had sort of a pre-cancerous reaction when they were extremely deficient
in vitamin D and then got exposed on the background of red hair and very pale skin.
They're more susceptible because of the lower pigment deficiency in defense against
ultraviolet.
Brandon writes in, "After all these years, have Dr. Peat ever come up with an idea of
how to get one's natural hair color back if they are gray?"
Do we know why the hair turns gray?
Yeah, partly it's that the skin loses or can't retain the copper enzyme that produces
the melanin pigment and a toxic accumulation of some competing metals such as iron can
displace the copper and accelerate the loss of pigment.
So it displaces the copper so one might play around with getting more copper in.
And less of the competing iron and possibly other heavy metals like molybdenum.
They would come in through what pathway?
Foods?
Yeah, just random accumulation of food materials over the years.
Interesting.
What do you think about drinking water that's been in a copper vessel?
It's okay if it wasn't acidic water.
People recognize the taste of copper pretty well at a toxic level if the water has a low
pH.
Oh, so what would be an undoable number for you pH-wise?
Five or six?
Yeah, around six it's already absorbing more copper than you wouldn't want to drink the
water if it had been standing in a copper vessel at pH six.
But seven or eight would be okay?
Yeah.
Here's a good one.
Rachel, "Hi Patrick, could you please ask Dr. Peat the best foods for autoimmune poly-let
me spell it for you doc, P-O-L-Y-M-O-S-I-T-I-S, it's cause and whether the current medications
are of any use?"
I just didn't get the word.
Polymotis?
Polymostis?
Poly-M-O-S-I-T-I-S.
Autoimmune polymostis.
I don't know.
I've never heard of that one.
You've not heard of that term?
No, not that spelling of it.
Okay, maybe.
Does Dr. Peat suggest, oh this is the lady who had the heat, you know, on her face, that
I would need some nitric oxide to get rid of the inside, to get rid of it inside of
me shedding from these jabs.
Would increasing that nitric oxide help her?
No, no it would probably make it worse.
Hot flushes consist of a surge of nitric oxide opening up the blood vessels.
So these shedding of the injection could be causing the hot flushes?
Yeah, I think so.
The blood vessels are very responsive to such things as shed spike protein.
"I've been struggling with COPD for almost 10 years," writes an emailer.
"Every year it gets a little worse and I have to take more medication, albuterol and
Simbicort."
Does Dr. Peat have any suggestions on things to do to help the struggle with COPD?
There is not much out there that I can find other than pharmaceuticals.
It depends really on what exactly the diagnosis means.
There are so many potential things that can increase the obstruction.
A friend of mine who was overweight in his mid-80s, when I visited him, his skin was
very purple and he was just sitting and gasping.
He was even slow to recognize who I was, and it was affecting all of his brain processes.
His daughter, right from that day, started adding a little bit of thyroid hormone, progesterone
and pregnenolone to his food.
Within two weeks, when I went back to visit him again, his skin color was normal and his
breathing was normal.
He took me up to his upper floor office and had me panting, but he was breathing like
a normal young man after having that almost terminal obstructive lung disease.
They had called it emphysema, but there are lots of variations on obstructive lung problems.
Adding inflammatory foods in the diet is one of the important starting places.
What are some of the things he did?
This person just added thyroid hormone, pregnenolone and progesterone, which are all anti-inflammatory
things that happened to be just exactly what he needed.
We mentioned coconut oil.
It's in coconut oil, isn't it?
Pregnenolone?
Only trace amounts.
A little bit.
Here's a good one.
Are peanut allergies caused by the peanut products in vaccines?
Oh, I didn't know they were in the vaccines.
Yeah, we're starting to see some reports of it.
People who are analyzing these things.
The traces of proteins in various vaccines, especially egg proteins, you can find the
lists of the known trace proteins in vaccines and the allergens that they can produce.
That's how you produce an allergic animal is to basically vaccinate it with traces of
foreign proteins.
A couple more and then we'll let you go, Doc.
What minerals are most important, writes John, for good tooth health?
Where can we get these minerals?
In animal studies, the water in the Rocky Mountains and Andes, for example, the water
that happened to be high in fluoride and was thought to be good for preventing tooth decay,
it turned out that the other trace minerals, molybdenum in particular, were contributing
to the resistance to decay, and calcium and the good balance of trace minerals turned
out to be the factor in the mountain water, not the fluoride.
This is very, very long and complicated.
I'm not going to do this right now.
What is essential oils like doTERRA, are these good or bad for us?
Some of them are good for reducing inflammation in the breathing.
For example, eucalyptus oil and menthol have been used to relieve chest congestion and
coughing.
Some of them have a very effective influence on behavior, for example, producing a mood
change, but each one is very particular, like a drug.
You can't say much about them as a category.
Nancy is about 65, she says, I'm going to paraphrase because this is long, but bottom
line is, Doc, she's got some kind of eruption, kind of red, bumpy, and it scratches.
She says it's about three inches in diameter, and she wants to know what she can do about
it.
General, when things erupt like this, is it something that just wants to come out?
No, it's an allergy.
It's often something you ate, and you have to look at your balance, all of your nutrients,
exposure to chemicals and foods.
It really takes a detailed study to identify it.
But it should eventually go away, I guess, for her?
Only if you correct the problem.
Anything you would put on it, you think, that could help it to dissipate?
Well, checking your vitamin D balance is really one of the first things.
Could you ask Dr. Peat about a woman, how does a woman know if she's at risk for osteoporosis
and can sense maybe that her bones are improving without getting x-rays?
What do you look at in that regard?
Ultrasound of the bone is better than x-rays.
Ultrasound of the bone?
You can actually see how strong the bones are?
Yeah, they can actually determine the strength rather than just the density.
Okay, final one.
Is vitamin D, vitamin K2, and NKA better to use on a long-term basis than MK7?
No, I don't think there's a big difference.
I use vitamin K1.
K1.
Uh-huh.
Well, Mr. Peat, here we are.
It's November.
You going to be around over the holidays?
We'll have to look at our schedule.
Yeah, I think we're going to be here.
Yep, I'll be here.
We'll get in touch in case we need to move something around, but I think I'll be here
too.
Dr. Peat, thank you.
If folks want to get their newsletter, it's raypeatsnewsletter@gmail.com, right?
Right.
RayPeatsnewsletter@gmail.com.
It's a very affordable thing.
You can sign up for that little guy, and then it's raypeat.com is your website, right?
Okay.
Dr. Peat, thank you so much, sir.
Take care of yourself, all right?
Okay.
Thanks for coming on the show.
I really appreciate it.
It means a lot to us.
Thank you.
Bye-bye.
Thanks for joining us.
This is Dr. Peat, and this is Ray on RadioNetwork.com.
That's so cool.
We talked to people like one of our heroes, Colin and all that, are coming up with things.
He was on this 30, 40 years ago.
Yep, baby.
Well, I'm getting hungry.
I'm getting hungry here.
Maybe I'll have a little orange juice first.
So I'll see you tomorrow.
We're going to be here at 10 o'clock.
Have some fun, lots to talk about.
Don't forget Martin Armstrong here on Wednesday and Dr. Andrew Kaufman on Wednesday.
So we've got a nice fun week for you.
So take care of yourself.
Thanks for your ongoing support.
I don't get far away from these little silly computers.
If I can help you with anything, a question or a comment about products or anything that
we do here, email me, patrick@oneradionetwork.com.
We support ourselves by promoting products.
Yours is talking about, you know, Zithrivo and all the different things, Asana and Sulfur
and all of it.
They're good products.
We appreciate your consideration when you want to spend some of your little dollars
on some things.
If you go to our website, One Radio Network, we've got some very good companies, people
that we've known for a long time.
All of them, we use everything.
I'm drinking the aloe, you know, from the aloe people and the colostrum and Dr. Cowan's
powders which are great.
We just use these things and the Pearlsium of course.
I'm always downing the Daniel Vitalis' products and this Arise guy from Shen Blossom.
Oh, I didn't even mention the BioAge, BioSuperfoods.
Didn't mention them today.
So we use all these things and we do pretty well for being a crazy person, Italian kids.
So thanks for your support and considering getting something through our website, OneRadioNetwork.com.
So I'll see you tomorrow, 10 o'clock.
Take care of yourself.
Let me know if I can help with anything.
I love you.
Thank you and may the blessings be.
From the Hill Country in Texas, broadcasting worldwide, this is OneRadioNetwork.com.
Thank you, for listening.
See you next time.